everyone thanks very much for coming my
name is Rahul potluck I run the EMR
business for AWS so it's really a
pleasure to be here to talk to you about
the service I'm also here with Scott
Donaldson and Clayton Kovar from FINRA
one of our customers they'll be speaking
about how they're using EMR at scale as
a petabyte scale data warehouse in their
environment and just before we get going
a quick show of hands how many people
here are existing EMR customers use EMR
today okay about two thirds how many
people use Hadoop in some fashion okay
just about everyone great and so we'll
get started what we're going to cover is
i'm going to give you an update on the
latest EMR release this is something
that we shipped last week will then talk
about some of the key capabilities of
EMR some of this will be familiar to
some of you but we'll try and get into
some actionable tips that you can use in
your environments we will also talk a
little bit about how to lower your EMR
costs so one of the things about AWS is
that we want you to spend as little as
possible to get the work done that you
need to and so we'll talk about how to
get more value out of the service but
really the bulk of the talk is going to
be Scott the senior director of
technology at FINRA talking about how
they've been able to use EMR in their
environments to run large volume queries
on large data sets at scale in a secure
environment and then we will have time
for questions at the end so diving into
EMR I think that most of the room is
familiar with it but essentially we are
managed clusters for applications in the
Hadoop stack and really this is anything
that's in the Apache ecosystem you can
use with EMR so whether it's spark or
presto or hive HBase everything will run
we also extend the Hadoop stack with EMR
FS which is a file system that
essentially looks like HDFS to the
applications and this allows your apps
to extend into s3 which is one of the
dominant storage tiers and what we'll
talk about a fair bit today but also in
today
DB Kinesis and redshift and so you can
run jobs that run across these data
stores and run them transparently in
your applications then we also integrate
with the AWS security infrastructure so
V pcs I am controls encryption at the
object level that we'll talk about on
the AWS key management service and from
a security perspective all of the things
that you're familiar with an AWS is
supported here we also completed hip
eligibility for EMR that was done in
July and so if you're running
applications that require HIPAA
compliance that's also supported and
were covered under the AWS baa and we
can follow up on that if you have
specific questions and and then EMR also
integrates with spot who's everyone
familiar with spot market could not as
many people so we'll talk a little bit
about what that is and how you can
leverage it in EMR as well so last week
we released EMR version 4.1 this was
actually a turned out to be a pretty big
release for us so we added support for
transparent HDFS encryption using the
Hadoop kms that allows you to plug in
your own key materials provider and so
this encrypts if the FS data it encrypts
the shuffle in MapReduce and transit
between nodes and it also encrypts scrap
space on the local disk so you can
actually run a fully secured local
environment we added spark 1.5 dot oh
and I know 1.51 just came out and we'll
add that pretty quickly in the next next
few weeks and we also added Zeppelin
Zeppelin if you're not familiar with it
is essentially a notebook like
environment where you can run
interactive queries in spark do
visualizations and collaborate with
other users on the system we added
presto presto is a sequel on Hadoop
technology that came out of Facebook
it's apache license and it can operate
sequel queries directly against s3 so
lets you run very large scale there and
we also add support for air-pal and this
is a project from airbnb which is a
friend
front end 22 presto and then the hive
one is in there Lucy's in there we added
Hugh which is a user interface for
Hadoop and that we improved some api's
for launching and configuring EMR
clusters and so generally focus on ease
of use from a development integration
environment and we'll continue to see
currency with applications in the Hadoop
ecosystem and then you always have the
ability to add anything that's not part
of the core distribution using custom
install actions and so if there's custom
code that you have or packages or
applications those can all be brought
onto the cluster as well in addition to
the distribution we also added support
for intelligent resize so I for example
you wanted to launch a thousand node
cluster instead of having to wait for a
thousand notes to become available EMR
will actually just incrementally take
whatever capacity is there and start the
work on your cluster and then
opportunistically add it as it becomes
available so your time to getting jobs
executed as much shorter in this
environment especially if there's any
temporary capacity blitz and then on the
resize down what we added was the
ability to wait for work to be drained
from notes if you want to cut your
cluster in half we will wait for works
two jobs to finish with an optional time
out on half the nodes before
decommissioning them so you can scale
down without introducing job latency by
having to retry and then we also as part
of this added the ability to scale down
your core node so in EMR core nodes
aware you have HDFS storage and you can
now grow and shrink your HDFS storage
and we just will replicate on to a
smaller round of space will check to see
that you have enough HDFS on your target
size to house the data that you have
allocated and in that scenario we'll be
able to resize down so a lot more
flexibility in dealing with elasticity
and EMR so one of the core parts of EMR
that makes it interesting and typically
different from on-premise or dupe
environments is EMR FS and so what EMFs
does is it allows you to extend your
Hadoop and apache jobs into the AWS
ecosystem the primary one here is s3
and the biggest benefit of s3 with EMR
is that you can decouple your storage
and compute so if you think about
classic Hadoop data lakes that might run
on ec2 or on-premise typically your data
will get cold pretty quickly and you
find yourself adding nodes to your
cluster just to house your data and
those nodes aren't really helping you
with compute jobs because you're not
using that capacity and so by separating
storage and compute and using s3
directly you can essentially have your
storage grow infinitely independently of
your compute at s3 storage rates so
three cents a gigabyte a month about
three hundred sixty dollars a terabyte a
year which is much lower cost typically
than you can achieve with 3-way
replicated data sitting in HDFS and as3
as you know is designed for 11 nines of
durability so you don't need to re
replicate once your data is there it can
be used directly and with EMR FS you
don't have to ingest data into HDFS
before you can use it it can stream
directly into your jobs and so you can
stream data in stream it out and go that
way and so this allows you to resize
your clusters turn them off turn them on
without having any impact on your core
data sets the other big benefit is that
it allows you to point multiple clusters
at the same source of truth which is an
s3 so if you have different departments
that want to operate different jobs they
can act in isolation their clusters can
be charged with our business units and
their departments and they don't affect
the core production operations of your
environment this also allows you to
split interactive query workloads from
ETL type workloads and again gives you
more flexibility in how you operate
another big thing and Scott will talk
about this as well is it allows you the
flexibility to evolve your analytic
infrastructure so if you're you know
you're all familiar with the Hadoop
ecosystem there's a new version of
something every week or two and and some
of these technologies are interesting
and you want to experiment with them in
an EMR environment you can just spin up
a new cluster with that new technology
operate in parallel on your data with
your core production environment and
then once you make a decision about
which technology you want to adopt you
can easily cut over from one to the
other so it buys you a lot of future
proofing and option value because you
can keep pace as the analytic tool set
evolves your infrastructure can evolve
with it
without any expensive replat forming re
transformation of data and with the
amorphouse we've also done some things
to make s3 more performant and easier to
use and so there's readout for right
consistency so you don't have to worry
about eventual consistency in s3 there's
also we've sped up list operations so if
you think about s3 buckets with
potentially millions of small files
listing them as you're doing jobs can
take some time and with the MRF s i'll
talk about what we've done we've
essentially built a map in DynamoDB that
allows for very fast list operations and
so that can speed up job throughput
overall and this is transparent to your
applications again you're just writing
jobs as you normally would and going
from there and then as you know s3 has
three tiers of encryption the server
side which is checkbox there is you can
also do client-side encryption and you
can do client-side with keys that you
provide either from a lot from an on AWS
key management system or you can
integrate with AWS kms and that's all
transparently supported through mr FS so
you can run jobs that will read and
write encrypted data using your key
provider of choice without having to do
a lot of expensive configuration or deal
with complexity there and when we talk
about transparent to applications if you
think of you know a hive job on HDFS
you've got a path to a local data set if
you're going to s3 it's just a simple
matter of pointing to the different
location you're not actually changing
anything in how you operate so you get
the flexibility of s3 and decoupled
storage and compute without having to
change or replumb your applications and
if you're running technologies like
spark for example on EMR they take
advantage of encrypted data on s3 you
can run secure jobs in spark through
this layer using sparks equal and have
access to the overall ecosystem you can
even write spark queries that traverse
s3 dynamodb and kanisha streams join
them together pull those into our DD so
a lot of flexibility in terms of
extending into the AWS ecosystem beyond
what sits in HDFS
and with the fast listing layer might be
a little hard to read but typically if
you've got something like a consider
case of a million objects listing them
might take 150 seconds with s free
directly 30 seconds going through EMR FS
so you can dramatically speed up access
to jobs using the the tooling that we've
provided and then with EMR FS and
support for client-side encryption
essentially in this model you can
encrypt data at the object level going
into s3 using a key provider of your
choice could be your own crypto could be
safe net boxes sitting outside of AWS as
I think was talked about in the prior
session or it could be the AWS key
management service which lets you define
keys set up i am policies for those keys
connect with other services and audit
the use of those keys those can encrypt
your objects the objects are encrypted
using envelope encryption and the
metadata is a pointer to the key
essentially an EMR FS can then use this
transparently to encrypt and decrypt
objects transparently for your
processing and so this is capability
that's built in and lets you run very
secure workloads using EMR now Mr also
HDFS is always available so when you
provision clusters you designate a
certain number of core nodes your HDFS
exists in that environment and and you
can use them for iterative workloads
typically if you think about it s 3 is a
network access there's an overhead to
that connection if you're losing very
small files of a lot of iterative
workloads you're not amortized that
fixed cost of the connection over a
large volume of data transfer so you
might see some latency relative to
running locally in HDFS and so HDFS is
it still available for you for those
kinds of jobs and you may want to
consider technologies like spark and
pulling that data into memory for it
iterative processing of our dd's that's
something that we see more and more and
we provide a s3 disk CP utility so this
is a distributed copy from s3 that lets
you ingest data into HDFS in parallel
from s3 at very high throughput rates so
if you need HDFS it's it's there for you
and you know when you're
thinking about storage formats there's a
wide range of choices available to you
again all of this can be supported you
choose how you format your data onto on
s3 for consumption our typical advice to
customers is when you're using s3 as
your data storage here just bring in
your door edita and whatever format it's
being generated in and then process it
into whatever format you need for the
systems that you're going to use the
query it and so this way you have an
archive of your raw data you have a data
that's ready in a format for processing
you know these could be row oriented
column column-oriented formats typically
your use cases in the nature of your
data will determine what you choose
there so for analytic type workloads
column formats can be great because
typically you're operating analytic
queries on a subset of the columns in a
table and so you're able to get better
performance because you're only
accessing portions of the data rows
stores can be great if you're trying to
look up all of the information about a
particular key and so those options are
all available to you in the s3
environment and if you've got schema
that's evolving many of the
self-describing formats like Avro or
thrift or protobuf can also help you
keep track of schema as it changes
giving you flexibility in that regard
and when you're using s3 as your primary
data store what we recommend is use the
hive meta store and have it running in
something like rdf so that way it's
running and persistent and highly
available off cluster and this allows
you to then spin up spin down multiple
clusters pointed the same hive meta
store and then have access to all the
tables and data sitting on s3 and other
factors to think about are the tool sets
that you're using and so different
technologies will work better or worse
with different data formats and as with
all things databases you've really got
to just try it out and see what works
best so for example in the case of
presto in the earlier session and as
that found that with the encrypted data
parque files worked better than 0 RC and
it just depends on the technology that
you use and you always have the option
to experiment with multiple variants and
then set set your sights and the ones
that work best for your workloads one
other tip when dealing with us three is
that small files can be problem
we talked about the fixed overhead of
getting that data and so you really want
to avoid small files where possible and
typically have files that map to your
block size because ultimately those
files will feed into a mapper that
mapper is going to be a JVM spinning
that up also has a fixed cost and you
want to try and amortize that over
larger volumes of data to maximize the
overall throughput of the cluster and
with small files you have a couple of
options you can either shrink the HDFS
block size and that can be done when
you're spinning up the cluster or adding
nodes to it or the what we think is the
better option is used as three disc CP
to combine the files in two sizes that
are large enough to operate efficiently
I think the default block size we
provide an EMR is 128 megabytes and you
want to use that wherever you can
another tip when dealing with s 3 and s
3 back data stores is compression
generally speaking compression is the
way to go because the savings of the
network transfer more than offsets the
cost of encryption and decryption so I
have compression and decompression and
you know the choices in that scenario
are thinking about when you're thinking
about what compression types to use
ultimately to trade off between time and
space so if your space sensitive then
you want to use something that
compresses more efficiently if your time
sensitive you can use something where
speed is paramount the table is there
for reference one other thing to think
about is the split ability of your
compression so typically if you have
very large files you want to think about
splittable compression models so that
you can provide splits to the mappers
and not have to essentially bottleneck
while processing one large file because
that data skew will lead to essentially
your cluster not operating with as much
parallel throughput as possible you're
effectively hot spotting and then from a
cost perspective we really do want you
to spend as little as possible on our
services and s3 is your persistent data
store automatically saves we've seen
customers save seventy to ninety percent
relative to keeping data live in HDFS
simply because you don't have to
replicate it you can shrink down your
compute if you're running batch
workloads that compute doesn't have to
be all
is on so for example climate corporation
which does weather modeling for
simulation for selling weather insurance
so they run simulations using soil
samples weather samples to try and
predict what they should price their
contracts at and they run these
simulations every day so they actually
spin up several thousand node cluster
nightly to rerun the scenarios process
data from s3 simulate right data back
out to s3 and that cluster only runs for
a few hours and so that flexibility with
s3 is your data store just saves you
money across the board and with spot so
we talked about spot briefly so the spot
market on ec2 is a market for unused ec2
capacity and you can get up to a 90
percent discount relative to on-demand
rates with spot and essentially it's a
market so you pick a bid price the
market price fluctuates based on supply
and demand and with EMR you can build in
essentially a bidding strategy you can
pick a max bid price you can pick the
number of nodes you want to operate at
that price and so if you have your
cluster size for 10 nodes because that's
your SLA and it gets your job done by 2
a.m. but you want to opportunistically
add up to 10 more at ninety percent off
when that's available EMR will add those
to your cluster your job gets done in
half the time your lower up and you have
a lower average cost per job and so this
is just capability that's built in and
if you're not using spot for batch
processing workloads you're definitely
probably paying more than you need to so
we definitely recommend taking advantage
of that and then if you have
steady-state workloads for always on
ad-hoc clusters or interactive models
the knee mr works perfectly with ec2
reserved instances and we even have
customers that will use their instances
for app servers during the day and then
at night when they're not serving as
much traffic they'll bring those
instances into their EMR clusters and we
can opportunistically take advantage of
that capacity so wherever possible you
can match costs to your workloads and
now with that I'm going to turn over to
Scott and we'll walk you through how
finna has been using EMR at scale and
then we'll come back for questions so
thank you
Thank You Rahul before I get started I
just do want to give a great deal of
thanks to Rahul in the EMR team we
started on our migration of moving to
the cloud started experimenting about
two years ago and really about a year
year and a half ago came into a full
force of moving our market data and the
EMR team both in terms of the sport
product feature requests and the
engineering staff have been just
top-notch in terms of making this
journey a possible so so before we get
started let me just give a quick
background of who is Finneran what is it
that we we do so Fenner is a were a non
we're a private regulator of the
financial markets we bring in data from
all of the equities exchanges or ninety
nine percent of the equities exchanges
and over two-thirds of the options
exchanges as well as regulate the fixed
income markets when you look at that
from a dollar volume perspective that
represents over 600 billion dollars of
trading activity a day and up to 75
billion events per day that we bring in
that we're ingesting and these rows are
typically quite large their order
reports and very detailed some of these
records have anywhere from 200 to 300
attributes and these can be quite wide
in terms of the details that we have on
that and currently within s3 we're
storing over 5 petabytes of that data
currently online and we continue every
day to add more and more to that what we
do with that data is we reconstruct it
after the fact and what we look at our
any ways of looking for basically market
integrity and looking for malfeasance in
the market so these things can range
from items such as layering and spoofing
any sort of market manipulation in that
regard also two items like insider
trading and fraud a recent example of
what would the work that we do at Vanara
there was a big press release a little
over a month ago from the SEC on an
insider trading case that was a over a
hundred million dollars that involved 32
traders that were ended up being charged
between the US Canada and in Eastern
Europe and what that was was an insider
trading ring where some Ukrainian
hackers were hacking into news wire
services getting into basically
unannounced public
earnings announcements feeding that
information back of the traders they
would open up accounts take an advantage
position on that sell it and they ended
up with over a hundred million dollars
in illegal profits what FINRA does is we
our jurisdiction is not that that falls
into the area of the SEC the FBI and
other foreign agencies like the FSA but
we're sort of one of the front lines of
defense on the US markets in that regard
so NR moved to the cloud EMR is
ubiquitous within our architecture and
before we kind of jump into where we
wrap we should understand where we came
from one of the aspects of where we are
running within our own data center is
probably a familiar sort of format that
many anybody working in big data has we
used a variety of very disparate
relational databases of Oracle and San
we also had a variety of different data
warehouse appliances and we had many of
these boxes one of the issue of bringing
in this much data and on any particular
day the market volatility can change you
we can end up with spikes where the
volume can Lily double in the span of a
day or two and being able to scale to
that capacity and provision that much
capital is is very cost prohibitive and
so what we need to be able to do is we
were always optimizing on a couple of
different variables of both of space and
storage and compute and often dealing
with a lot of trade-offs and that
sometimes we are we optimizing for our
ETL or for our series of batch analytics
or sometimes we would be disadvantaging
in terms of interactive queries because
you're optimizing around these other
variables as opposed to laying out the
data and optimizing as to what is the
particular use case that you're trying
to do when we moved over as we're moving
up to the cloud we wanted to remove and
break that constraint and move through
EMR and s3 we're able to achieve that so
what we have is that we use EMR
literally throughout our entire
architecture everywhere from where we
bring in the data to where we are doing
etl and data ingest and ingress and data
normalization we run a variety of batch
analytic programs every day we're
constantly looking at daily weekly
monthly quarterly annually look back
periods around us looking for these
items like layering and spoofing and
insider trading and then ultimately what
we do with that is generate a serious
events that a regulatory analysts looked
at and now they need to actually
investigate this so there's a workflow
around this they have to go they have to
investigate this and they use things
where we provide various different query
clusters sometimes they're doing
targeted queries other times they're
doing very large-scale investigations
and they need a wide or a very large
slice of the market in that case we use
EMR and hive and we put that into a
redshift and create little private data
Mart's for the users so now they can
query on that particular slice and these
slices are taking lily from several
trillions that we have in s3 several
trillion several trillion records within
our database with in s3 putting that and
we create slices that might range from a
couple hundred thousand rows to actually
several billion rows we've created data
Mart's for individual users that have
ranged in the 250 billion and they're
still doing that for an analysis where
they're doing that over a range of time
so at for us at FINRA as as a Rahul is
alluding to it's always about like the
data right that's ultimately what we're
trying to be able to do an s3 is that
durable source of record and what we do
with that is and then EMR FS provides
that consistent view for us the key for
us is what we do is that we've separated
what we're doing in terms of archiving
the data versus what we do in terms of
query for use and will create two or
three copies of that data and have it
partitioned in different ways on top of
an archival format and to help manage on
orchestrate all of this Finn arrows
created what we call our fin or data
manager and actually yesterday peer of
mine Tigran announced yesterday during
the s3 we offender has open source staff
in our data manager it's called heard
you can actually find that out on github
to be able to pull that and what that
does is provides a unified catalog of
all of our data objects and data sets
across s3 and wherever they're being
provisioned it provides lineage and
tracking and usage and it also allows us
to do cluster management so we've
abstracted all these different services
at an infrastructure layer so that we
don't actually have to sew individual
development teams don't need to be able
to be worried about that and they can
focus on the matter at hand of what
their particular item that they're
trying to develop along with that you
have to look at like what is the right
I'll format and what's the right
compression for us because we're dealing
with such volumes of data within the
archive what we selected was visa
because of the high compression that's
really out there we keep it in s3 for a
short period of time and then move that
over in the glacier and I think at this
time we're sitting with not just we have
over five petabytes of data just sitting
inside of glacier and several other and
several more petabytes over an s3 as we
archive this data our requirements as a
regulator of these financial markets is
that we have to keep this data for over
seven years and we have to keep full
fidelity on these records you can't
bring a legal case against somebody and
be missing one record out of a million
when you're trying to prove a case
that's the first thing the lawyers going
to point at and get the case dismissed
so that chain of custody and that
evidence control is critical and
paramount with everything that we do
once we have that data an archive format
we under we take a look at what are the
usages that we're doing of that data and
then put it into the right format and
partition it and lay it out for the
particular purpose that we're trying to
serve now some of the nuances that we
have within our data is that we don't
get all the data for a particular event
date on the date we received it so we
had some unique challenges as we are
laying out and trying to partition
looking at that and optimizing our query
so what we have in the in the equities
market for instance we have over 20,000
ticker symbols being traded between
Nasdaq nicey and over-the-counter we
have over 10,000 firms that are trading
on these activities that range from the
goldman sachs bank of americas and
merrill lynch's to a mom and pop shop
that literally you know a two-person
firm that operates out of their house
there are participants in these markets
so if you're looking at that from a
partitioning we always require a date
and an and or an issue or a firm
typically with most of our query use
cases that would represent over 200
million partitions and our data is
highly skewed because Bank of America
treating an amazon stock is much higher
than some small mom-and-pop shop trading
in an over-the-counter security so what
we ended up doing is that that violates
the one tenant which is having small
files out on s3 so what we ended up
coming up with is a hashing algorithm
both where we grouped the issue symbols
into over a hundred different buckets
and looking at the number of firms and
given the size of that we ended
kind of like with our sweet spot of
trying to have our data file sizes
within these buckets to be in the 128 to
256 megabytes range and that provided us
sort of the throughput that we are
looking for that optimize within there
are various different queries so as you
were doing any sort of queries around
these if you're doing a symbol query you
would hit at most 10 partitions plus a
late partition so we get this point oh
three percent of the data that can
trickle in slowly over the course of a
year to two years and every day we have
to continue to add that into it to make
sure that it's relevant within that
query if you're doing a firm query you
had hit a hundred and one partitions as
opposed to the millions of millions of
partitions that you have and if you're
doing a simple query you'd hit one part
you would actually hit just two
partitions the single one with all of
the late data so one of the things that
we had experimented in high was actually
trying to use bucketing but that didn't
actually work with sort of the
multi-dimensional analysis that we were
trying to be able to do with this nor
did it work with sort of Union all what
we are doing is that oftentimes we are
emerging orders information trading and
quoting so a variety of different event
types and we needed to be able to Union
these across different time so an
example of creating that hive table is
that we would create it we would in our
case we had chosen to use orc and this
time with snappy compression so snappy
gives you very fast compress and
decompress and we were using work with
all these partitions and we would create
these and we would have basically the
table name the event date and then
actually the hash partition which define
that particular table basically that
file then represented that partitioning
scheme now what we were competing
against as I was stating earlier was the
data appliances and so you hear a lot of
questions around like hive and the
performance of what you're able to
provide so the incumbent in our regard
that we were battling against were the
types of queries we were running on our
data warehouse appliances our initial
release that we put out in February this
year we were in the ballpark we spent a
lot of time partitioning and laying out
and testing and tuning both the query
and the cluster around this and we got
it within the ballpark and we were able
to go out the door with that now
partitioning is great but right
literally three days before we are going
live with this we are back processing
and adding more and more data
literally we have tens of millions of
partitions in our high meta store where
we're loading three or four years worth
of this data and a typical query that we
were running we have embedded the hash
partitioning into the sequel query
itself so you didn't have to enumerate
problem with that is that the hive meta
store can actually interpret the P Mod
functions in terms of that so what it
was doing is that the hide meta store
couldn't do that predicate push down
that Lily returned millions of
partitions back to the hive server and
all of a sudden a query that was taking
30 45 seconds now was taking 10 minutes
two hours because of the number of
partitions that actually had the prune
in the high server to process so what we
ended up having to do is literally two
days before launch around this is
refactor our code and come back in and
actually layout and specifically
enumerate the hash partitions and within
that we couldn't use an in clause
because that was just sort of the
limitation within hive so as you're
building this data you always have to be
aware of what are the limitations of the
particular tools that you're using and
what are the different query use cases
around the app now putting the data up
there is great and being able to query
it but its financial records and they
have to be secure Nate Salmons was
actually from Nasdaq was in the prior
session and he spoke actually quite at a
depth of this and we use many of the
same techniques that Nasdaq is doing
where they are actually providing this
data one is that we require all of our
data at rest to be encrypted all of our
data and flight is encrypted and all our
data on inside of a server has to be
encrypted so s three we had internally
walked our early on within our process
moving to the cloud we involved are in
first information security folks and
they came up with the assessment we had
to sell that not only to our IT
management but our business management
to all the exchanges that we regulate so
Nasdaq nicey the CBOE as well as the SEC
into our Board of Governors which
represents all of the firms that over
see what FINRA does and what we had
found is that we actually believe that
running ourselves up on the cloud was
actually more secure than actually
running it within our own data centers
that we were operating given the amount
of data that we bring up and shuffle and
move around one of the aspects that in
sorry i forgot the touch on within our
architectures that every day that we're
very very transient we bring up anywhere
from nine thousand to 12,000 nodes per
day where we're doing these analytics in
the batch and the ETL and those nodes go
away at the end of the day so we're
constantly bringing up and shutting down
on a daily basis the ones we do have a
server up we're using Lux encryption
with a random memory key and so if we
were to have to lose it a particular
node or lose a server you've lost that
data but it doesn't really matter for us
because the golden source of truth is
always sitting down in s3 and it's
sitting in those external tables we just
reinitialize the cluster and bring it
back up and do it again and then we also
use security groups and I am and now
with the advent of the Hadoop
transparent encryption that's now in the
EMR for one we're going to be evaluating
that looking at taking advantage of a
lot of those different features at vm
our team that provides for us now we go
back to why did we end up selecting EMR
in the first place we had been running
internal Hadoop ourselves and we're
looking at doing running Hadoop up in
the cloud some of our tables as i was
talking of our different events one or
just one of our tables is over 600
terabytes to represent that data so to
just put that one table in the HDFS on a
set of eq two clusters would have taken
at least 30 d 28 x cells that represents
over a million and a half and costs
annually to be able to operate that
cluster whereas storing that data on s3
and bringing up Andy telling it or
querying it when we needed it to it was
120 thousand dollars is what we're
paying effectively on that in terms of
the storage and the clusters when we
extend that to our other data sets that
we have we're you know we're tripling
over the number of nodes of these high
capacity nodes that you need so it goes
back to the point of having that
separation of the storage versus the
compute we don't need that much compute
power for the types of queries that were
typically are running that we don't need
that much because the queries page over
time there's most of the volume that
they're looking at is over the first few
months but we have to be able to query
into the data that goes back up to seven
years the other item that goes along
with that you'll always hear the
argument of within Hadoop is that you
have to have data locality now if you
perfectly sort of lay out your data and
get it all little day
locality which is a ton of work you
might be able to achieve up to like two
times performance over what you're doing
in general where you're just laying out
the partitions and working through
external tables what we saw is about a
15 to and eighteen percent degradation
and performance in general unless you
were willing just put in all of that
extra effort to get perfect data
locality within your HDFS note so you
know the trade-off of that given the
cost was well worth it of using EMR and
s3 one of the other items that we
considered to help deal with that or
where we do have our most it is the most
recent data is typically the most query
data we debated actually storing that
data into locally HDFS using s3 disk
copy and putting that in there but that
provided an operational issue that as
you have that cluster the partition
maintenance you couldn't actually have a
separate hide meta store around that it
actually had to be on cluster and so
hydrating the cluster with millions of
millions of partitions the
initialization of that cluster could
actually take hours to onboard that
whereas if you already connect to an
existing hive meta store that can
actually materialize in a matter of
minutes one of the other beauties of
just moving on to the cloud one of the
advantages that we're looking to take
advantage of was the ability to move and
change instance types as opposed to when
you're running inside of your own data
center the fact that you are basically
committed to at least three years maybe
five years of sitting on that particular
hardware platform we went live initially
with based on the types of queries and
analyzing what we were doing we went
live with one of our career clusters
with about 140 nodes using m3 class
machines and that was based on the
different types of queries now one of
the constraints that we had within our
own internal environment of dealing with
these appliances that they couldn't deal
with concurrency we had to build a whole
governance around that they were limited
in the amount of data and the record
sets that we would through the
application returned to them so that we
basically time shared the appliances
across hundreds and across hundreds even
thousands of users asking their
different questions once we turn once we
separated this concern and basically
unleashed a level of untapped demand
Lily it wasn't a move down the curve
able to shift in the curve right it
shifted outward in terms of what types
of questions they're asking what size of
data that they're asking for and so we
ended up learning from that and we were
receiving various different hive and
query errors around that
and so we started refactoring the code
and looking at the various different
instance types the new C 3 4 s had came
out and we were testing and
experimenting around that and we
actually found that by going with
smaller larger nodes fewer nodes in your
cluster of larger nodes given the memory
in the CPU ended up having better
throughput and we could actually deliver
greater concurrency than what we had and
the net result of that is that we
actually now weren't just competing with
the incumbent we're actually beating it
we ended up improving our overall query
performance across all of our various
different test cases by over thirty six
percent we ended up with a greater level
of concurrency now we are supporting
anywhere from 40 to sometimes 40 to 50
concurrent queries were in our old
appliances we would support 8 to 10 and
all of this at a much lower cost both of
what we are running before hand on our
initial version of EMR and a much
greater cost efficiency than what we are
doing off of our internal environment so
one of the other aspects is you're
always looking at costs as an aspect
that's always the selling point as
you're trying to move up data to the
cloud is right sizing your cluster and
our case a touched on it just a little
bit ago is that you look at your ETL
your batch analytics and these things
are very very transient and here we
heavily use the spot market typically
within our SLA s we've had very few spot
failures and so when you're architecting
your batch analytics your details you
have to understand that like the job may
not complete if you get all bid and then
the cluster gets taken away from you and
in reality we've seen very few failures
within that where that actually occurs
and what you can do as I looked a like
bit above the market price or even above
the on-demand price because you only
actually pay at the price what the
market is doing as a strategy around
that within the analytics perspective
what we had to look at is what we're a
couple of factors what is the amount of
queries that we needed to serve at the
low period as opposed to the peak period
so it changes your mentality of how
you're trying to architect your solution
before we are always architecting and
capacity sizing for peak now we are
looking at what is the minimum that we
needed service level that we needed to
provide and how do we grow up and scale
up to the particular use cases that the
business is demanding and if we needed
50 nodes and we need to go to 200 nodes
we
easily add that to the capacity so it
was really a balance of what was that
minimum set and also what is that
minimum that you need to put into HDFS
no matter what you're doing you still
have to have some level of HDFS within
hmmm use within your core nodes that's
for various different statistics and
logging and all the aspects that kind of
run with that so what we found is so the
way you can kind of minimize your costs
around that is then going out and
reserving your mastering your core nodes
that minimum size and then growing your
core and your caps notes up on top of
that to scale up and then at when the
peak demand goes away then we scale that
back down right now we're doing that
primarily on a timing basis and we
constantly monitor and look at that and
we're looking to take advantage of some
more the intelligent resizing
capabilities with the new EMR release as
we go forward one of the finite amount
is that as we scaled up you needed to
keep roughly about a 5 to 1 ratio
otherwise your core nodes end up
becoming a bit of a bottleneck with all
the logging aspects that you need to be
able to do that just HDFS requires so
one of the other things that Rahul both
touched on as well as Nate and you see
this as a common practice in terms of
architectures is basically having a
single meta store and that meta store
should be off cluster the advantages of
this or are several-fold one is that you
get a high level of fault tolerant in
terms of having a multi-zone AZ with it
with your meta store and that's always
on and that your initialization of your
servers is much faster now they're just
basically initiating a connection to
your RDS instance around this and now
onboarding that before if you're trying
to set up the meta store as part of your
cluster you're literally where we are
doing millions and millions of
partitions it can take about seven
minutes per day to onboard the
partitions and if you're doing it over a
course of a month or a year that cluster
may take hours for it to initialize one
of the nuances that you have to be aware
of is looking at the tool sets that
you're doing as much as we would love to
have in terms of open source and
interoperability between file sets
whether it be or core part k and the
various different tools out there of
hive and presto there's nuances and
there's differences in the data types
and what sort of semantics that they
support high 13 is different than high
one which is different than presto what
we are
ultimately trying to be able to have is
that one copy of the data and eventually
you know these products are starting to
converge around some of those nuances
around the data types and we and as that
comes in but in the meantime what we do
is that we keep a different version we
keep a single meta store on a single RDS
instance but we keep multiple versions
of that and we keep that updated on a
daily basis and a part of our fin or
data manager what we do is as new data
comes in or new versions of that come in
that those partitions will automatically
get added and updated and so you as a
consumer don't have to deal with all of
that maintenance right if you are a team
that's focused on analytics or batch
analytics you now no longer have to deal
with all of that infrastructure in the
pit and the partition maintenance that
you normally would even if you're
running like your own database or
swapping partitions in and out of your
appliances or your other relational data
store so one of the last points that I
guess I'd like to be able to kind of
like touch on in terms of best practices
is that you have to be constantly
monitoring learning and optimizing and
adapting around this you know one of the
when we initially went out the door we
weren't doing anything we primarily had
a single cue set up within our EMR and
we were basically clogging the highways
we would have a lot of smaller queries
that might be asking for five thousand
rows 10,000 rows a hundred thousand rows
a million rows somebody would come in
and ask for data set that would actually
be like several billion so everybody's
smaller queries would get clogged up
behind that so what we did is that we
implemented that and we basically route
the query in terms of the various
different queues inside of the EMR
cluster to separate that concern
secondly is that you always have to be
refactoring your code you got to be
looking at where your bottlenecks and
redesigning and refactoring and taking
advantage of the new tools and the new
versions and what comes out and what can
you do in terms of like caching or other
mechanisms around that one always will
be looking to optimize on your costs in
terms of transient clusters and one of
the things that if you're looking at
your ETA your batch analytics so within
Amazon you're paying on the hour of
those servers take a look at your sizing
the worst thing that you'd want to be
able to do is have a job that runs like
you know 62 minutes when if you added 10
more nodes to it it would complete in 55
so then you're paying that extra hour on
those expert
so if you're looking to optimize on cost
you have to play around with that you
got to look at what your sizing is and
be able to to try to manage inside of
that one other item that was a unique
that we had ran into of running at least
in terms of some of our hive queries
over s3 was basically expected of
execution so some of our queries are
very very long running over the EMR and
through s3 and what speculative
execution does is that it want as high
of the Seas if the process had taken too
long it will launch a new thread to try
to be able to do that the first and the
first process would ultimately finish
while the second one was still looking
at it and it would overwrite some of the
results and we picked up on the
completion of the first thread not
knowing that the other one was was
unaware so it's just basically was just
a little item and we end up catching
that relatively early on and some other
things you can do is using like
broadcast joins in terms of being able
to take small you know small dimension
or various different fact tables and
kind of cashing those in there and you
can use things like the EMR step API
when you're basically setting up various
different job queues but using items
like Uzi where you have more complex
jobs the net result of all of this is
that we ended up actually removing
obstacles one of the tenants that we had
within sort of FINRA technology is get
technology out of the way it's to
empower and provide self service to the
individual business consumers to let
them ask whatever questions of the data
that they wanted to I kind of call it
the Ganesh effect who's a remover of
obstacles and that's basically getting
technology out of the way and let them
do what they want to do the other aspect
is that we've lowered that cost of
curiosity so now what we are able to do
is provide multiple clusters and
separation of concerns we have various
different business departments and they
are looking at the data in different
ways we have off as a chief economist
and they're looking for trends and
profiles we have market regulation that
are looking for regularities and events
and sequences within the data and so we
can separate those concerns we can
optimize around that and they can get to
the types of queries that they're
looking to be able to do the other
aspect around this is that when you're
in a fixed capacity environment in your
own data center is that you're always
dealing with I kind of call ways called
it the mainframe effect you're always
shuffling data in and out we were
dealing with a fixed capacity of
whatever box and even as you move from
one box of another bigger box you're
always still living inside of a box what
EMR and s3 has allowed us to do is to
get outside of that we often times you
end up with data fixes or data
Corrections you have to reprocess you
have to rerun there's a whole series of
analytics and decisions that have
already been made on that but you still
got to meet your production SL layers of
all your other daily jobs that need to
execute before it was just actually a
few weeks ago we ended up having like a
big data correction from one of the
exchanges that needed to correct over
like six months worth of data which mean
all of that analytics all the ETL that
were done on top of that needed to be
corrected and so what that happened if
we were doing that in the old
environment that might have been a two
or three months a little mini project to
shuffle this data in and out we did that
in the span of three or four days in EMR
spinning up separate clusters around
this and actually executing that we're
delivering the updated results to the
business so they can move on and the
other the final aspect of this is that
you're looking at this and you separate
these concerns and look at these
different services you end up ultimately
increasing your team's delivery velocity
so we've picked up the pace in terms of
what we were able to deliver in terms of
business value in terms of the various
different services and features we can
be able to deliver so just to kind of
recap a few of the different items as
obviously take advantage of EMR and s3
and resize and definitely take advantage
of the spot market you can save a lot of
dollars around that which makes your
finance and you're purchasing people
very happy you need to have need to look
at always kind of having that shared
persistent meta store that's out there
one of the other items I guess the last
two are kind of near and dear to us is
that all within this ecosystem all of
these things are changing and they you
need to be able to adapt and to move
around this having your data separated
from your compute and being able to
adapt and move to different items
currently today we use a we're using hi
we have smaller patches of presto and we
can and we're growing and evolving our
use of presto we have some smaller
patches of where we're using like spark
and that continues to grow it allows you
to these engines and these tools are
going to continue to evolve as long as
you can run them in a Hadoop environment
and r up and put them out there with
your data separated you're not tied to
that particular format and goes back to
how you do that and ultimately you need
to make sure that you're budgeting time
to experiment in terms of looking at
these engines right sizing the cluster
and
demising around that you need to make
sure you have that built into your
delivery schedules as you're working as
working these items out some other
related sessions that were out there and
with that we'll be happy to take some
questions we have a few minutes left